# Spelling_Test_Game
Gamification of an elementary school spelling test 
Automating my life with Python has become second nature to me. Whenever I’m working on a task, I ask the three links to automation – 1. Will the time spent automating be less than doing the task itself, 2. Will the process of automating bring me joy, and 3. Can this automation help others? Number three is new to me. I love automating tasks so much that I often look past question one, but number three – that is something that I’ve just started taking into consideration.

I have an eight-year-old daughter who is in third grade. Her school work is light, but with that said, she always has a spelling test each week. She needs to study for this, but in a typical eight-year-old fashion, it isn’t something she loves to do. Do you know what she loves to do? Watch drawing tutorials on YouTube kids. I think that’s pretty typical, but as a parent, I don’t like her to be on YouTube (even if it’s YT kids) all day long. This is where my automation comes in.

She only has to learn to spell 15 – 20 words a week, but it’s a bit of a task to memorize. Initially, we would have my daughter write down each word three times on each Monday, and then throughout the week, we would quiz her (helping her out along the way). These processes worked okay, but she would become frustrated when she constantly missed a word. I mean, learning how to sound out words is one thing, but having to memorize them just by writing them down and then reciting was kind of boring. This was when I decided to look at my third link to automation (can this help someone else out) and create an automated Spelling Bee Coach. Using Python and the random, time, webbrowser, sys, and os libraries, I coded out a program I called (“Lucy’s YouTube Spelling Quest”). Why “YouTube Spelling Quest”? Well, that’s because, in this automated spelling coach program, my daughter had to battle her way through the spelling words to hit the YouTube button. Once the button was found, it turned on YouTube Kids for 30 minutes. We allow her to play as many as three times a night, and by mid-week, she could blast through all of her words.

Using gamification, the program spoke the word that she was supposed to spell and showed her three things – 1. The first letter of the word, 2. How many letters were in the word, and 3. The last letter of the word. If she misspelled a word two times in a row, it would give her a hint by revealing one extra letter. If she missed it again, it moved on but revisited the word before she could beat the game. The incentive was the 30 minute access to YT kids. At my house, YouTube is turned off on our network at all times via a DNS Blocker. If she beat the spelling quest, the Python program would connect to the DNS Blocker to allow YouTube Kids access for 30 minutes (although I can control the time). Not only has this turned my daughter into a spelling master, but she enjoys the process (and incentive).

Creating a gamification/automation program for my daughter has been fun, but it also has gotten her excited about coding. She always asks for tweaks to the game, and of course, I ask her to help me add the new code. This brings me back to one of my core values, spending time with family, and there is nothing better than that.
